wiki/Building-the-Flatpak.md, before:

## Install dependencies

Barrier is built against the [KDE runtime and SDK](https://github.com/AdrianKoshka/barrier-manifest/blob/master/com.github.debauchee.barrier.json#L3-L5),
to install them, one should follow these steps:

```shell
$ flatpak --user remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.kde.Platform/x86_64/5.12
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.kde.Sdk/x86_64/5.12
```
You should replace `x86_64` with your architecture (`i386`, `arm`, `aarch64`, `x86_64`)
and `5.12` with the current version of the runtimes and SDK used in the [`com.github.debauchee.barrier.json` file](https://github.com/AdrianKoshka/barrier-manifest/blob/master/com.github.debauchee.barrier.json#L3-L5).

## Flatpak builder

`flatpak-builder` can be installed as a flatpak, this provides the benefit of
having a possibly more up-to-date version of `flatpak-builder`. To install,
follow these steps:

```shell
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.flatpak.Builder
```

To make compilation smoother, we use `make`, which can be installed from your package manager.

## Compiling the flatpak

First thing you'll wan to do if you haven't already, is clone the repo:

`git clone https://github.com/flathub/com.github.debauchee.barrier.git`

Then `cd com.github.debauchee.barrier` and `make` or `make FLATPAK_BUILDER="flatpak run org.flatpak.Builder"`.

### Cross compiling

If you're on `x86_64` and want to
compile for `i386`, this can be done via:

`make BUILDER_OPTIONS="--arch=i386"`

Keep in mind though, you'll need to install the `i386` platform and SDK.

Commit message:

Update Flatpak wiki page - deprecate instructions (temp)

wiki/Building-the-Flatpak.md, after:

Flatpaks
========

The Flatpak is on @shymega's [fork](https://github.com/shymega/flathub/tree/add/flatpak/input-leap) of the [flathub/flathub@new-pr](https://github.com/flathub/flathub/tree/new-pr) repository.

Once v3.0.0 has been released, it is due to moved to the Input Leap repository,
as well as the Snap, macOS, and Windows packages.

To ease confusion, the following instructions have been deprecated until further
notice. Input Leap is not ready for general use yet.

~~
## Install dependencies

Barrier is built against the [KDE runtime and SDK](https://github.com/AdrianKoshka/barrier-manifest/blob/master/com.github.debauchee.barrier.json#L3-L5),
to install them, one should follow these steps:

```shell
$ flatpak --user remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.kde.Platform/x86_64/5.12
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.kde.Sdk/x86_64/5.12
```
You should replace `x86_64` with your architecture (`i386`, `arm`, `aarch64`, `x86_64`)
and `5.12` with the current version of the runtimes and SDK used in the [`com.github.debauchee.barrier.json` file](https://github.com/AdrianKoshka/barrier-manifest/blob/master/com.github.debauchee.barrier.json#L3-L5).

## Flatpak builder

`flatpak-builder` can be installed as a flatpak, this provides the benefit of
having a possibly more up-to-date version of `flatpak-builder`. To install,
follow these steps:

```shell
$ flatpak --user install flathub org.flatpak.Builder
```

To make compilation smoother, we use `make`, which can be installed from your package manager.

## Compiling the flatpak

First thing you'll wan to do if you haven't already, is clone the repo:

`git clone https://github.com/flathub/com.github.debauchee.barrier.git`

Then `cd com.github.debauchee.barrier` and `make` or `make FLATPAK_BUILDER="flatpak run org.flatpak.Builder"`.

### Cross compiling

If you're on `x86_64` and want to
compile for `i386`, this can be done via:

`make BUILDER_OPTIONS="--arch=i386"`

Keep in mind though, you'll need to install the `i386` platform and SDK.~~
